# SEMS-Server

## Smart Electricity Prediction System using LSTM and SVM algorithm to manage household’s electricity efficiently.

### At present, almost all parts of the world are dealing with SMART technologies in order to spend the daily routines efficiently and without much effort. In a country like Sri Lanka, this can be seen specially among the high- and middle-class communities. IOT and other IT related technologies have been a blessing for their busy day to day life since it makes people's lives easier. Electricity consumption is something that the country has considered a long time ago. While most of the urban areas have electricity facilities, some of the rural areas of the country have not seen a light bulb ever. This is mainly because of the deficiencies in the distribution of electricity and unnecessary usage. Domestic electricity usage in excess is a factor that should be considered thoroughly. Demand for residential electricity in Sri Lanka is at a higher rate with the effect of population explosion and development of technology in the modern world.  Most of the consumers have no idea of their amount of energy consumption by means of electricity in their day to day life. This leads to a huge wastage of energy in the form of residential electricity, which is not a favorable condition for the country. In order to comply with this problem, we will be proposing a smart system which is called “Smart Energy Management System” where an IOT based mechanism has the potential to extract data from subsections of a house. It was found that this approach has the capability to analyze all the readings of the meter regularly and predict the future electricity consumption. Other than that, it displays a smart energy usage suggestion plan which encourages users on efficient energy consumption. A mobile application will be developed where users can efficiently monitor and control energy usage for a household in addition.
